# Robot Simulator

This project aims to provide a developer friendly interface for developing and testing algorithms used in robotics competitions such as Vex V5.

## Directory Structure

This project uses the Pitchfork Layout for modular development. Submodules are designed as self-contained units under `libs/`, and user-facing applications are located under `apps/`.

```
├─ apps/
│  └─ simulator_gui/       # Graphical simulator application executable
│     ├─ src/              # App entry points
│     └─ CMakeLists.txt
├─ libs/
│  ├─ lib1/                # Library that includes use unit tests (like the core engine)
│  │  ├─ include/lib1/     # Public API headers
│  │  ├─ src/              # Private implementation files
│  │  ├─ tests/            # Unit tests for the engine
│  │  └─ CMakeLists.txt
│  └─ lib2/                # Library that does not use unit tests (like ui or graphics)
│     ├─ include/lib2/     # Public API headers
│     ├─ src/              # Private implementation files
│     └─ CMakeLists.txt
├─ cmake/                  # Custom CMake configuration
├─ CMakeLists.txt          # Root build configuration
├─ CMakePresets.json       # Configured build presets
├─ vcpkg.json              # vcpkg package manifest
└─ ...                     # Other configuration / documentation files
```

---

## Developer Onboarding & Getting Started

### **VERY IMPORTANT NOTE:** As it currently stands, this project only supports development on **Windows** platforms. Adding support for other operating systems is planned for future development.

### Quick Setup (All Developers)

Navigate to your preferred development directory and run the following command to clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/jaydenbascio/robot-simulator.git
   cd robot-simulator
   ```

### Option 1: Visual Studio Code (Recommended)

1. **Make sure you have VS Code installed**:
   * You can get the latest version of VS Code here: https://code.visualstudio.com/download?_exp_download=fb315fc982
   * Install the recommended **C/C++** extension

2. **Run the Setup Script**
   * **Visual Studio Build Tools** is required for building this project. These tools can be installed via **Visual Studio**.
   * Run the setup script under `scripts/setup.ps1` to setup your computer for development on this project. Keep in mind this requires Administrator rights
   * A prompt should appear asking you which Visual Studio version you want to install build tools to. If you have installed a specific version that you would like to use, select that. Otherwise just select the option `Install/Configure Visual Studio 2022 Build Tools anew`

3. **Configure & Build**:
   * Before running commands, make sure to source `.` the script under `scripts/run-env.ps1`, which should have been generated by the setup script. This will locate and initialize the build environment automatically:
      ```bash
      . ./scripts/run-env.ps1
      ```
   * Run the following commands to build the application under `debug` mode.
      ```cmd
      cmake --preset debug
      cmake --build --preset debug-build
      ```
   * The following command will run unit tests on the project:
      ```cmd
      ctest --preset debug-test
      ```

4. **Run the Application**
   * Run the application

---

### Option 2: Visual Studio

1. **Make sure you have Visual Studio installed**
   * The recommended version for this project is **Visual Studio 2022**
   * You can install Visual Studio at this link: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/older-downloads/
2. **Run the Setup Script**
   * Run the setup script under `scripts/setup.ps1` to setup your computer for development on this project. Keep in mind this requires Administrator rights
   * A prompt should appear asking you which Visual Studio version you want to install build tools to. Select the version you have just installed.
3. **Open the Project**:
   * Open Visual Studio
   * Click **Open a local folder** and select the `robot-simulator` root directory.
   * Visual Studio will automatically detect `CMakePresets.json` and configure the project.

4. **Build**:
   * Select your desired preset (e.g., `Debug` or `Release`) from the configuration dropdown.
   * Select `Build > Build All` (or press `Ctrl + Shift + B`).

5. **Run & Debug**:
   * Select `simulator-gui.exe` as the startup item.
   * Press `F5` to start debugging.

6. **Run Tests**:
   * Choose `Test > Run All Tests` from the main menu.

---

## Tech Stack
- **Language**: C++17
- **Compiler**: MSVC (managed by Visual Studio)
- **Graphics Framework**: SDL3 (managed via vcpkg)
- **Test Framework**: Catch2 (managed via vcpkg)
- **Build System**: CMake & Ninja
